31st sitting in Suzanne Dethridge office about to interview her about her student experiences particularly in her work as a student reporter Suzanne check your mic out.
This is Suzanne L. Dethridge D. E. A. T. H. E. R. A. G. E.
Suzanne, for someone who might not know you, reading the transcript of this tape in years to come, summarize your growing up and your background before you arrived at A&M.
Well, I grew up in Houston, Texas.
My parents are native Texans and did not have a history though of any Aggies in the family.
One uncle who attended briefly
but no prior graduates and I graduated from Sharpstown High School in 1974.
I was one of 735 in my graduating class and
looked at the Texas universities, but didn't really have a prior inclination or strong feeling about going to A&M.
I chose it because of its strong program, its academics and being close to home and, as I told my parents, safer to go to school and live off campus at A&M than to live on campus at UT.
I was accepted at both.
There were dorm rooms available at UT, but not at Texas A&M.
So I did go through the lottery process, but ended up living in an apartment complex.
I'm the oldest of six children, and a couple of the others did come in and get a bit of the Aggie experience, but I'm the only graduate.
Did you come to visit the campus before you enrolled?
I did.
I came with some of my fellow high school students who had older siblings attending Texas A&M and visited and toured the campus.
What was it that attracted you?
What were the factors that seemed positive to you?
much of what I heard about A&M, you know, given that I had, I'm the oldest of my family, so of the six, and so I didn't have that reference with siblings, but my friends did, and so they spoke highly of the university.
And I was active in high school in my yearbook and high school journalism class, and had had the opportunity to
and interview at the Houston Post and the Houston Chronicle, and they both spoke highly of Texas A&M.
Even though we had a small journalism program here, that was my interest.
And so I had been favorably impressed, you know, by the professional opinions that were held of the Texas A&M program.
Did you go through fish camp?
No, I did not.
And I really didn't have a strong awareness.
So the exposure that I had was coming to apply, going with a friend who interviewed with the dean of women at the time to find out about housing.
I could tell she received more attention being related to Aggie students and Aggie graduates.
You could tell that there was that network amongst the A&M family.
And so I was a newcomer in that sense, but I tagged along, and so I overheard much of what was explained, but I probably was missed as far as the opportunity of Fish Camp.
Describe that first fall, what it must have been like to a newcomer living off campus.
Well, you know, there's that culture shock and switching from a protected home environment and being out there on your own.
I think that the real estate community knew how to exploit that because I did go through an apartment locator service and they took me first to see a very rundown old dilapidated apartment and then took me to the newest
you know, most expensive complex and that's where I ended up staying and having an apartment two-bedroom with two other roommates, the three of us sharing.
What was the cost of that?
Do you remember?
No, I don't remember.
I don't remember.
You say it was new?
It was new.
Where?
It was the Briarwood Apartments on Highway 30.
And at that time, I believe it was the Tanglewood Apartments that were the last, that was the outer
edge of city and development on Highway 30 and then you went what seemed to me a long distance before you hit Briarwood again.
So it seemed rather remote to me, that particular apartment complex.
But it was nice and they did have the shuttle bus service and I did use the shuttle bus service to get to and from and eventually did end up with my own car.
But it was a time of shortages.
You know, there was a shortage of on-campus housing, there was a shortage of parking, and the shuttle bus service was crowded and overstressed, and it's grown, of course.
And so really it was, you know, being a little fish in a big pond.
What did you bring physically?
What was the stuff that you brought up here?
Well, I rented a furnished apartment, so I brought myself and my wardrobe, and that was about it.
No electronic gear.
No, I didn't have any of, you know, I just... No computer.
Didn't have any of my personal... No microwave, no refrigerator.
So it could be brought in one vehicle?
Yes, and I was eager to come.
I...
came up one evening after my last day of work at my job in Houston.
I'd had an after-school weekend job there, and I had continued to work there through the summer.
And when it was time to report to school in the fall at Texas A&M, I didn't want to wait until the next day.
And I came that night, so it was after dark, and I was nervous.
I had my car loaded with my things.
and had not come by that route very often, so it was a little bit unfamiliar, and so I had that nervousness, but I couldn't wait.
I had to leave that night.
So you came up on your own.
Your parents didn't...
My parents never accompanied me.
They didn't bring it, okay.
No, they didn't accompany me for looking at the campus or for finding an apartment.
I did all that on my own and then I drove myself and moved in at the time.
And I was used to being pretty independent given their obligations with the rest of my big family.
And then subsequently I helped my younger brothers and sisters when they would come to look at campus and consider college.
Describe your first impressions of going to class and what courses you were taking and your impression of the faculty and so forth.
Well, I was bewildered.
You know, I had to find my way around and so it was just a lot of effort at asking questions and getting directions and having some
just basic interviews with the guidance counselors on registering for class.
And beyond the registration process, I was not want to bring much attention to myself, you know, I just managed to find my way and go to class.
They were big classes.
They're all, of course, the freshman introductory
level classes I had placed out of a couple of hours, but there were usually 100 plus students at the time, which is probably small by today's comparisons, but straight out of high school those seemed like big classes to me.
And buying books and going to the MSC, just very typical.
Did you think that the student body was pleasant?
Oh, very much so.
Helpful?
Yes.
Now, did we register still in 74 in the field house, stand in line, or did you do it on a machine?
I've forgotten.
No, it was stand in line.
Okay.
Yes.
And the DeWare field house, over by G. Raleigh White.
That's right.
And do you remember what your, in terms of hour load, what was it that first semester?
I'd have to look that up.
I may still have my report cards, but I took a, I don't think I ever took less than 15 hours, you know, starting out.
See, today's norm is 12, or many students think that 12 is a full-time load.
No, I took, I believe it was at least 15.
And how long did you assume it was going to take you to finish your undergraduate degree?
How many years?
Well, I started out thinking four, but it did take me four and a half.
I graduated in December of 1978, and there was one semester when I withdrew at the time because of the work pressures that I had as a reporter at KVTX-TV.
Now, did you, you already thought you knew what your major would be?
I selected journalism and stayed with it.
I never changed majors.
I was never undeclared.
So journalism was your first semester.
Right.
That was your goal.
Yes.
All right, as you look back, were there some key faculty members and advisors that you met early in your career at A&M?
Well, the ones that, you know, that I remain fond of in my recollection, there were two, Mr. Bill Harrison in the journalism department.
And I was involved in his classes my sophomore year.
And likewise, Mr. Bob Rogers, who was head of the department at the time.
And so my freshman year, I didn't have as much interaction with the department.
I was taking those basic prerequisite courses.
So it was really not until my second year that I started interacting more with the faculty.
I did join the yearbook, the Aggieland yearbook staff, and served for one year, and that just happened to be the year of the centennial edition.
1976 edition was the centennial year for Texas A&M, actually.
It was not the centennial edition as far as the 100th book.
But it was the 100th year of A&M, and so that was a special edition to work on, and I enjoyed that very much.
And that was all in the Reed McDonald building.
And I had, when you mentioned that I was a student reporter, in that capacity I worked as a part of my semester requirement on the battalion.
But in fact, I was never an official, you know, paid student reporter at the battalion.
Most of my student work was with Aggieland.
All right, now for the sake of anyone who may read this, I want to note that the yearbook originally here was named the Oleo.
And then was the Longhorn for many until 1948.
And then it became the Aggieland.
And I've often wondered, and I've never checked, does the name of the Texas A&M yearbook Longhorn predate the mascot name of athletic teams at the fine university 100 miles west of us?
I wonder which was first.
But I found many current Aggies that cannot believe
that the Longhorn was the name of the yearbook here.
And I'd love to know where they got the name Oleo, how and why.
Well, I'll have to pull out my edition for you.
I wonder if they might have been more comprehensive in the 76th book.
They might have.
Of the history.
Although I do know that when the 100th issue of the yearbook came out, they had a
a separate celebration at the journalism department.
And so you might find some of that information interesting.
Of what value to a journalist was that year or that time on the yearbook staff?
What good was it for a journalist?
Well, actually, you know, there was a lot of experience in layout and design, but I did not do extensive writing, journalistically speaking, because I ended up being the advertising manager, which I was a little disappointed in because I had done that in high school, but then I had moved on to other positions in high school and been more experienced.
But it so happened that for that year in the yearbook, they expected a lot heavier sales in advertising, and I was the only one who had prior advertising experience, so I got tapped for that.
I didn't realize how lucrative that was, and if I had been a more aggressive salesperson, you know, to sell to former students and their companies for the centennial year,
I would have probably made a lot more money as it was.
I got a 15 percent commission, which is probably one of the highest paying rates, you know, for a student job of any kind.
But it was a busy job because the university did not recognize the sororities and fraternities at the time.
So they could not be included in the student organization section.
The only way they could be represented in the yearbook was to buy an ad.
So I was very busy with the photographer taking group photos of all the sororities and the fraternities and doing the layout of their ads in the yearbook.
And that's how they managed to be represented in the yearbook at all.
So it was an interesting behind the scenes.
What was their attitude about that, the fraternity and sorority members, about not being recognized?
Well, you know, they didn't care for that.
were lobbying at the time about their service orientation.
There was the sense that being an Aggie is a fraternity in and of itself, and that it would be divisive to have these other sororities and fraternities, the Greeks.
So they had a lot of that to overcome, but they were very persistent and eventually did, and I think emphasized their strong service orientation.
For the sake of future historians who might read this material, I would like to mention that today we have a higher per capita membership of fraternities among males at A&M than does the University of Texas at Austin, 6% to 5%, and among women, much higher, 14% to 6%.
So we have more fraternity and sorority members per capita than does UT.
And we have more fraternity and sorority members total than we do members of the Corps of Cadets.
Many old-time Aggies are stunned when I mention that to them.
Back to that first year in courses and so forth, how were young women treated on the campus then?
How were co-eds treated by rank-and-file faculty and students?
Well, certainly no differently than I had ever experienced in a large city, in a large high school.
I didn't perceive any difference in treatment.
I wasn't looking for it, but when I would tell people that I was going to Texas A&M,
I had a couple say, oh, you're going for your MRS. I didn't know what that meant.
It just went right over my head.
And then I did figure it out, you know, after I got to Texas A&M.
But my incoming freshman class was reputed to be, and I'd have to double check, was reputed to be, if I recall correctly, the first in which there was a 50-50 ratio of young men to women.
Now, it became more obvious to me in the upper graduate classes, upperclassmen, that there was a disproportionate number of men to women.
But it was not a strong perception that I had being ensconced in my freshman classes.
So that you didn't have to put up with any snide comments about being a female student here from male Aggies walking along the street or anything?
No, I don't have any recollection of that at all.
What was the term, as far as you know, in print to refer to a female student at this institution in those days?
Well, now in print, I don't know that I saw it, but you know.
But for a little while they had been Maggie's.
Well, I was going to say, unofficially, you know, and conversationally, there was no reference of Maggie.
How did you and your fellow coeds feel about that, that term?
It was not offensive, but we didn't want to be different.
You know, we didn't see the need for a distinction.
Did you go to midnight yell practices and football games?
Yes, I sure did.
Describe those.
Well, that was...
You know, a thrilling experience.
It was very rousing and to go to Midnight Yale and march through with the crowds and to attend the games and the march in.
And my early dates at that time were with a member of the Corps, so it was a fuller flavor, you know, of the experience.
The one thing I did not do my first year was attend muster my freshman year.
I did not attend my first muster until my sophomore year, and at that time I was also assigned to cover it as a reporter at Channel 3.
It would have helped if I'd been to one.
I would have known the routine because I was more intrusive than I needed to be as a reporter.
I went out on the floor of G. Riley White to get some film footage.
We didn't have a zoom lens on the camera, the old camera they gave me.
So I had to be actually within a short distance to get the action shot.
And I didn't know that they played taps from these different directions.
And when they started playing, I thought, well, do I stand still and wait, or do I leave the floor?
And I thought, well, if I leave the floor, I'll have to just run right back out, and taps is so short.
So I stayed and tried to be very reverently still, but then it continued to play from these different directions, and I realized that I should have exited.
So I ended up being on the front page of the battalion the next day.
I think they felt like I made myself part of the...
of the story by sharing floor space with the Ross volunteers during that muster.
What was your impression of muster as a total experience, that first one?
What did you think about that event?
Well, the first one, because I was doing it as a job, I was really preoccupied with the logistics of getting the angles of the shots, and I didn't really experience it personally.
And, of course, since then I've been.
And also on the occasion when I've lost friends who have been honored and of course it's a very touching ceremony.
I've done 24 muster speeches, and it is a moving experience.
And I know of no institution that has anything approximating it.
And I think of that in today's world as a very key Aggie unification event, young and old, male and female, family and so forth.
This I'm also putting on this tape for the sake of anyone who reads it in the future.
I have the impression from all the interviews I've done that muster until World War II
and the Corregidor muster was very much smaller in number of people and feeling and so forth than today.
That World War II transformed it just as bonfire was much smaller before World War II than it would be after that.
Other experiences that first year that helped to make you into more of an Aggie?
Football games, midnight yell practice, muster, what else?
Well, bonfire, of course, you mentioned, yes.
And then just the on-campus atmosphere and environment.
I mean, being, you know, walking from place to place and having squadrons of the Corps, you know, marching around campus or, you know, doing their runs or whatever.
And so that was just a very different environment for me.
But it took a while for me to develop just a real strong attachment.
You know, since I didn't have that as part of my, you know, family culture or prior background, a lot I just stumbled upon, I think Fish Camp can be very instrumental and I'd recommend that.
And I have a sister who participated in fish camp, but that's very instrumental in getting someone kicked off and understanding about the Aggie culture traditions.
Somebody told me that Bonfire was a maroon baptism.
I mean, excuse me, Fish Camp was a maroon baptism, and I think that's not a bad name.
Among your co-ed friends as an undergraduate, were you unusual that you didn't have any brothers that had gone to A&M, or were there lots of other co-eds who didn't have a family A&M link?
It seemed to me that a majority did have some kind of link.
And either a sibling or a parent or an older boyfriend that had preceded them in coming to A&M and occasions that they would visit A&M before they ever started going to school here.
So that did seem to be predominant.
And then I started working my sophomore year.
And so I was divided in that I, you know, I was working very soon full time.
For Channel 3?
For Channel 3 at KBTX TV.
How did you land that?
Well, I took it to heart in my journalism classes when they told me that it was very important to have experience to accompany my degree, some kind of internship or job.
And I did investigate at the Eagle.
I was a print major.
at the time but there was not an opening and there happened to be someone else from Channel 3 who worked at Channel 3 in one of my classes and I did go over there and end up getting hired for a job but I was motivated because of the encouragement from my professors.
In all these interviews, I'm trying to kind of use as a kind of a doorstep measurement.
What was your first pay?
We're not going to ask about what.
Well, my first pay was whatever was minimum wage at the time.
Is that right?
And I think that was in the $2.
For Channel 3?
Yes.
And you said full time.
Do you mean 40 hours?
It became very soon.
I started out being hired under a half time.
And what were your duties?
Agreement.
But that grew very quickly to be full-time plus.
And I started out being hired as a reporter.
They had had a news director, a sportscaster, and a weatherman, and talk show host up to that point, but they had not ever expanded to have a reporting staff.
So I supplemented the news directors, the first staff reporter, and then within a couple of months, Jack Hodges was hired to join me.
And so we were the first regular weekday reporters, as we understood, as we were told at the time, and I was the first female.
There had been a woman talk show host, but there had not ever been any women on the news.
Was that Billie Jean Baron?
Was she still the talk show host, hostess?
I don't know.
Fern Hammond.
Oh, Fern, sure.
Was the host at the time that I started there.
And then shortly after Fern, Phyllis Dozier.
Back in the 60s, there had been an afternoon before the networks.
It was called Talk of the Town.
Well, yes, and the name.
Stayed.
What were your, do you remember some early reporting stories, some experiences?
Well, yes, just right off the bat, you know, we were out on the scene at different events and activities, and my first experience was in running camera and observing and learning on the job.
Let's see, I started in March.
The first time that I held a microphone in my hand, the first person I did an interview with was Nancy Reagan.
She came through to campaign for Ronald Reagan in 1976.
I interviewed her at Easterwood Airport, and we were on the way.
I was to run camera when my news director suddenly said, well, why don't you ask the questions?
And I have a picture of that, a print from a frame of the film that I keep in my office.
There was a crowd, and so that was my first performance under fire to ask Nancy Reagan questions in front of a big audience.
Do you remember any key question you asked her?
Yes, and I still have the film, the sound on film of that interview.
And it was a very staccato exchange.
She was running late, and I had had time to think about my questions and to memorize them.
And...
In hindsight, I think she was a little bit nervous also.
She was a little bit terse and short with her answers, and I wasn't seasoned enough to follow up on her answers, so I just went through my list of questions very quickly, and there was just this question, answer, question, answer.
I asked her about John Connelly and
her opinions on a couple of the issues at the time and I'd have to refresh myself looking at that film though but it didn't take us too long to run through the questions.
What was your impression of her as a person?
She's very petite.
She was presented with a football
And she held onto it.
She held onto it close to her chest the whole time.
And the way she held onto it and the terseness of her answers and those big eyes, you know, I really thought she was about as afraid of me as I was of her.
But I was not a big town investigative reporter.
I'm sure I wasn't what she was used to or expecting.
And so she warmed up, though.
You could tell when she gave her presentation to the students that she enjoyed interacting and the spontaneity of the interactive audience question and answer.
Now, her husband was contesting Ford for the Republican nomination in 76.
Right.
Okay, and Jimmy Carter would be the Democratic nominee and would win.
Okay, so he doesn't get the nomination.
Who were some other famous or otherwise memorable personalities you... A&M was a good draw, so it was a wonderful experience to start here with the first job in journalism.
I interviewed every governor that we had, well, and from then on through my experience with the Extension Service.
But let's see, I think Dolph Briscoe was a governor, one of the governors at the time, or might have been the whole time that I worked there.
Mark White was...